### Environment Types

Warden currently supports three environment types. These types are passed to `env-init` when configuring a project for local development for the first time. This list of environment types can also be seen by running `warden env-init --help` on your command line.

* [`local`](https://github.com/davidalger/warden/blob/master/environments/local.base.yml) This environment type does nothing more than declare the `docker-compose` version and declare the external `warden` network which Traefik uses to proxy requests into the project's containers. When this is used, a `.warden/warden-env.yml` may be placed in the root directory of the project workspace to define the desired containers, volumes, etc needed for the project. An example of a `local` environment type being used can be found in the [m2demo project](https://github.com/davidalger/m2demo).
* `magento2` Provides the necessary containerized services for running Magento 2 in a local development context including Nginx, Varnish, php-fpm (PHP 7.0+), MariaDB, Elasticsearch, RabbitMQ and Redis. In order to achieve a well performing experience on macOS, source files are synced into the container using a Mutagen sync session (`pub/media` remains mounted using a delegated mount).
* `magento1` Supports development of Magento 1 projects, launching containers for Nginx, php-fpm (PHP 5.5, 5.6 or 7.0+), MariaDB and Redis. Files mounted using delegated mount on macOS and natively on Linux.
* `laravel` Supports development of Laravel projects, launching containers for Nginx, php-fpm, MariaDB and Redis. Files mounted using delegated mount on macOS and natively on Linux.

All environment types (other than `local`) come pre-configured with a `mailhog` container, with `fpm` services configured to use `mhsendmail` to ensure outbound email does not inadvertently send out, and allows for simpler testing of email functionality on projects (you can use [Traefik](https://traefik.warden.test/) to find the `mailhog` url for each project). There are also two `fpm` containers, `php-fpm` and `php-debug` (more on this later) to provide Xdebug support enabled via nothing more than setting the `XDEBUG_SESSION` cookie in your browser to direct the request to the `php-debug` container.

For full details and a complete list of variables which may be used to adjusting things such as PHP or MySQL versions (by setting them in the project's `.env` file), and to see the `docker-compose` definitions used to assemble each environment type, look at the contents of the [environments directory](https://github.com/davidalger/warden/tree/master/environments) in this repository. Each environment has a `base` configuration YAML file, and optionally a `darwin` and `linux-gnu` file which add to the `base` definitions anything specific to a given host architecture (this is, for example, how the `magento2` environment type works seamlessly on macOS with Mutagen sync sessions while using native filesystem mounts on Linux hosts). This directory also houses the configuration used for starting Mutagen sync sessions on a project via the `warden sync start` command.
